General Instructions : Write the answers in a Notepad or doc file and save it in Training_yourname folder and inform your Mentor.
This set of Questionnaire focuses on “CLI and Git Workflow”
1. Which of the following adds all new files to local repository ?

a) git add .

b) git add -u

c) git add -A

d) None of the Mentioned

Ans -> option (c)
reason :  git add . updated tracked new file and modified in present working directory
          git add -u updated modified file,it will not add a new file in repo

2. Point out the correct statement :

a) You don’t need GitHub to use Git

b) CLI can help you to organize files and folders

c) Navigation of directory is possible using CLI

d) None of the Mentioned

Ans -> option (a) & (b)

	Exp. :  Git is a version control tool, it is tracking to our changes.
		Github is a cloud server.

3. Which of the following command updates tracking for files that are modified ?

a) git add .

b) git add -u

c) git add -A

d) None of the Mentioned

Ans -> option (a) & (b)
	reason : git add . will update modefied file and add new file in repo, in present working directory
		git add -A will update modefied file and add new file in repo in local repo.
4. Which of the following command is used to give message description ?

a) git command -m

b) git command -d

c) git command -message

d) None of the Mentioned

Explanation:This only updates your local repository

Ans -> option (a)
	Exp. : git commit -m "message"
	reason : command -d use of delete a branch

5. Point out the wrong statement:

a) You need GitHub to use Git

b) GitHub allows you to share repositories with others

c) GitHub allows you to access others repositories

d) All of the Mentioned

Explanation:GitHub can store remote copy of your repository.

Ans -> option (a)

	reason : git is a version control tool and dithub is a server. so with a git we can use other swrver also like bitbucket.

6. Which of the following command allows you to update the repository ?

a) push

b) pop

c) update

d) None of the Mentioned

Explanation:The git branch command is your general-purpose branch administration tool.

Ans ->  push
	reason : git stash use for saving the changes. and git stash pop is remove the changes from stash in working directory.

7. Which of the following is correct way of creating GitHub repository in to well labelled commits ?

a) Fork another user’s repository

b) Pop another user’s repository

c) Zip another user’s repository

d) None of the Mentioned

Explanation:A fork is a copy of a repository.

Ans -> option (a)
	reason : Fork is given at right side upper corner in github.
		it is a copy of repository. when we have to edit some contents without 
		impecting our parent repository that time we can use it.

8. Which of the following command is used to squash the commits ?

a) rebase

b) squash

c) boot

d) All of the Mentioned

Explanation:In Git, there are two main ways to integrate changes from one branch into another: the merge and the rebase.

Ans -> option (a)

	reason : squash the commit in git means combine a N number of commits into 1 commit.
		like if we have to squash last 3 commits the command like squash rebase -i HEAD~3;
		rebase -i is iterative tool that helps us to squash commits.

9. Which of the following statement would create branch named as ‘sanfoundry’ ?

a) git checkout -b sanfoundry

b) git checkout -c sanfoundry

c) git check -b sanfoundry

d) None of the Mentioned

Explanation:A branch in Git is simply a lightweight movable pointer to one of these commits.

Ans -> option (a)
	reason : if we can create a new branch ('sanfoundry') from GIT branch, it will take base to GIT branch.

10. branch command is used to determine which branch you are currently in.

a) True

b) False

Ans ->  option (a)


11. How will you differentiate develop, master, feature and hotfix branch ?
Ans ->  develop branch - this branch have contains of pre-production code. 
			When the features are maded/completed then they are merged into develop branch.
	
	master branch - this branch contains a production code(main task code). 
			All develop branch code is merged into master in sometime.

	feature branch - feature branches are used to develop a new features for the upcoming releases.
			 May branch delete from develop after  merge into develop.

	hotfix branch - hotfix branches are necessary to act immediately upon an undesired status of master. 
			means, after releasing face some problem by customer(bugs), that time immediately use hotfix branch.

12. Write sequence of commands to follow before modifying a file from directory and after saving the changes.
Ans ->   git clone 'link' -> create file -> git add 'file name' -> git commit -> (if change somthing in file) ->
		git diff -> (if get back what we changed) -> git checkout 'filename' -> (if dont want get back the changes) git commit ->
		git push origin 'branch name'. 

13. Give advantages and disadvantages of Version Control System.
Ans ->   Advantages :
	 ------------
			Traceability - It tracks the contributions made by several developers.
			Document History - This will help to improve the overall functionality of the software.
			Branching And Merging - Creating a branch enables each team member to work on the same project using multiple streams (branches).
						These workflows may be for particular features or specific version releases, then after merging to all 
						branches.
			Reduction Of Duplication And Errors - Version control can reduce the duplication of multiple and/ or out-dated versions 
							      of any given document.
			Management Overview - Version control enables management to have a whole view of the development of the project.
			Efficiency - Testing becomes easier as problems are detected more quickly.

	Disadvantages :
	---------------
			It is difficult to make copies of the repository.
			It's not easy to merge from repository to repository.
